DOCS: Add an Infracost tutorial (#77)
nebari-dev/nebari: docs/docs/tutorials/cost-estimate-report.md

---
id: cost-estimate-report
title: Create a cost estimate report

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A guide to Nebari's cost estimate tool
---
```

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## What is Infracost?

> [Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/) is a tool that enables developers to analyze their cloud cost estimates using their Terraform templates. Nebari wraps the `infracost` command-line interface, which is free and open-source, to provide cost estimates for your Nebari deployments across major cloud providers from your terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/) is a tool that enables developers to analyze their cloud cost estimates using their Terraform templates. Nebari wraps the `infracost` command-line interface, which is free and open-source, to provide cost estimates for your Nebari deployments across major cloud providers.
```

Reviewer: This sentence was just too long. I removed a bit we didn't need to get the length down a little.

Infracost natively supports Amazon Web Services, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. For this tutorial, we will be using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) deployment to generate the cost report.

## Installing Infracost

To install the `infracost` command-line interface, run the following command on your terminal:

```sh
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/infracost/infracost/master/scripts/install.sh | sh
```

The script downloads the the CLI based on your operating-system/architecture and puts it in `/usr/local/bin`.

After installation, you can run `infracost` locally via the following command:

```sh
infracost --version
```

Next, you'll need to configure the API key for Infracost to enable generating cost reports and dashboards. Nebari's cost estimate feature requires this API key. To generate the key, run the following command on your terminal:

```sh
infracost register
```

Now you can run the following command to validate your API key:

```sh
infracost configure get api_key
```

> We are now ready to run the cost estimate tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are now ready to run the cost estimate tool.
```

## Generating the cost estimates

To generate the cost estimate, run the following command:

```sh
nebari cost-estimate
```

> The `nebari cost-estimate` will look for the `stages` directory and analyze the Terraform templates to generate a cost report. It will consist of two tables describing the cost and resources breakdown, a publicly-accessible Infracost dashboard URL and additional documentation on the edge cases that the cost estimate tool currently misses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Nebari cost estimate` tool will look for the `stages` directory within your deployment file structure and analyze the Terraform templates to generate a cost report. It will consist of two tables describing the cost and resources breakdown, a publicly-accessible Infracost dashboard URL and additional documentation on the edge cases that the cost estimate tool currently misses.
```

Reviewer: is this accurate?

 • Total Supported Resources: The total number of resources supported by        
   Infracost.                                                                   
 • Total Unsupported Resources: The total number of resources unsupported by  
   Infracost.                                            
 • Total Non-Priced Resources: The total number of resources that are not       
   priced.                                               
 • Total Usage-Priced Resources: The total number of resources that are priced  
   based on usage.                                                              
```

You can share the URL of your Infracost dashboard `https://dashboard.infracost.io/share/XXXXXXXXXX`
across your team for better insights into your cloud costs breakdown.

> The Infracost dashboards are enabled by default for users. This is done via the Infracost's `INFRACOST_ENABLE_DASHBOARD` environment variable, which is set `true` by default.

If your `stages` subdirectory is not present, you would need to share the path of your `stages` directory with the `--path` option.

```
nebari cost-estimate --path=path/to/stages
```

## More on node pools

> The cost estimate report is statically analyzed via Terraform templates stored in the `stages` sub-directory, and the actual cloud costs are subject to change. Nebari relies upon node-pools, a useful resource that doesn't get captured in the above report. A general node pool will always have one node running, adding an additional charge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cost estimate report is statically analyzed via Terraform templates stored in the `stages` subdirectory, and the actual cloud costs are subject to change. Nebari relies upon node pools, a useful resource that doesn't get captured in the above report. A general node pool will always have one node running, adding an additional charge.
```

---
id: cost-estimate-report
title: Create a cost estimate report
---

## What is Infracost?

> Infracost is a tool that enables developers to analyze their cloud cost estimates using their Terraform templates. Nebari wraps the `infracost` command-line interface, which is free and open-source, to provide cost estimates for your Nebari deployments across major cloud providers from your terminal.

Reviewer: add link to external tool website

This tutorial will generate a cost report for our Nebari deployment, which you can share with other users and groups via a simple Infracost link. We will also be looking into how Infracost can be configured on your local machine. 

> Infracost supports Amazon Web Services, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform, and this tutorial will work regardless of the cloud provider. For this tutorial, we will be using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) deployment to generate the cost report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Infracost natively supports Amazon Web Services, Azure, and Google Cloud Platform. For this tutorial, we will be using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) deployment to generate the cost report.
```

## Installing Infracost

To install `infracost` command-line interface, run the following command on your terminal:

```sh
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/infracost/infracost/master/scripts/install.sh | sh
```

The script downloads the the CLI based on your operating-system/architecture and puts it in `/usr/local/bin`. If you are using a package manager like Homebrew, you can install `infracost` by running:

```sh
brew install infracost

> ```

Author: Since the script above works for both Linux/macOS I just removed the homebrew option.

After installation, you can run `infracost` locally via the following command:

```sh
infracost --version
```

> You can next configure the API key for Infracost to enable generating cost reports and dashboards. To do that, run the following command on your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you'll need to configure the API key for Infracost to enable generating cost reports and dashboards. Nebari's cost estimate feature requires this API key. To generate the key, run the following command on your terminal:
```

```sh
infracost register
```

> Nebari's cost estimate feature requires an API key to be configured before running the tool. If you have configured an API key, run the following command to validate your API key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can run the following command to validate your API key:
```

```sh
mkdir nebari-gcp-deployment
cd nebari-gcp-deployment
```

Install Nebari using `conda`/`pip` by pushing the following command on your terminal:

```sh
pip install nebari
```

```sh
conda install -c conda-forge nebari
```

To generate a fully-automated configuration file, run the following command on your terminal:

```sh
nebari init gcp \
  --project projectname --domain mysite.com \
  --ci-provider github-actions \
  --terraform-state=remote \
  --auth-provider github --disable-prompt
```

Finally, with the `nebari-config.yaml` created, Nebari can be deployed:

```sh
nebari deploy -c nebari-config.yaml
```

It will generate the following directory structure:

```sh
.
├── image
│   ├── Dockerfile.dask-worker
│   ├── Dockerfile.jupyterhub
│   ├── Dockerfile.jupyterlab
│   ├── README.md
│   ├── dask-worker
│   ├── docker-bake.json
│   ├── jupyterhub
│   ├── jupyterlab
│   └── scripts
├── nebari-config.yaml
└── stages
    ├── 02-infrastructure
    ├── 03-kubernetes-initialize
    ├── 04-kubernetes-ingress
    ├── 05-kubernetes-keycloak
    ├── 06-kubernetes-keycloak-configuration
    ├── 07-kubernetes-services
    └── 08-nebari-tf-extensions
```

> We can now move ahead to generate the cost estimate.

Reviewer: I think all of this should be removed. These are installation instructions which are in another section of the docs

Reviewer: Just need to make note that this tutorial assumes you have nebari installed.

## Generating cost estimate

> To generate the cost estimate we will use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate the cost estimate, run the following command:
```

```sh
nebari cost-estimate
```

The `nebari cost-estimate` will look for the `stages` directory and analyze the Terraform templates to generate a cost report. It will consist of two tables describing the cost and resources breakdown, a publicly-accessible Infracost dashboard URL and additional documentation on the edge cases that the cost estimate tool currently misses.

It will be visible in the following manner:

```sh
         Cost Breakdown          
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃               Name ┃ Cost ($) ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━━┩
│ Total Monthly Cost │       XX │
│  Total Hourly Cost │       XX │
└────────────────────┴──────────┘
           Resource Breakdown           
┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━┓
┃                         Name ┃ Number ┃
┡━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━┩
│         Total Detected Costs │      X │
│    Total Supported Resources │      X │
│ Total Un-Supported Resources │      X │
│   Total Non-Priced Resources │      X │
│ Total Usage-Priced Resources │      X │
└──────────────────────────────┴────────┘
Access the dashboard here: 
https://dashboard.infracost.io/share/XXXXXXXXXX

> QHub rely upon node-pools which is a usage resource but doesn't get captured in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nebari relies upon node pools which is a usage resource that doesn't get captured in 
```

> the above report. A general node-pool will always have one node running will add

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the above report. A general node pool will always have one node running will add
```

> quite an additional charge. Please check in with your cloud provider to see the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion 
an additional charge. Please check with your cloud provider to see the 
```

associated costs with node pools.                                               

 • Total Monthly Cost: The total monthly cost of the deployment of supported    
   resources.                                                                   
 • Total Hourly Cost: The total hourly cost of the deployment of supported      
   resources.                                                                   
 • Total Detected Costs: The total number of resources detected by Infracost.   
 • Total Supported Resources: The total number of resources supported by        
   Infracost.                                                                   

>  • Total Un-Supported Resources: The total number of resources unsupported by   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 • Total Unsupported Resources: The total number of resources unsupported by   
```

   Infracost.                                            
 • Total Non-Priced Resources: The total number of resources that are not       
   priced.                                               
 • Total Usage-Priced Resources: The total number of resources that are priced  
   based on usage.                                                              
```

> You can share the URL of your Infracost dashboard `https://dashboard.infracost.io/share/XXXXXXXXXX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can share the URL of your Infracost dashboard `https://dashboard.infracost.io/share/XXXXXXXXXX`
```

> ` across your team for better insights into your cloud costs breakdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
across your team for better insights into your cloud costs breakdown.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> The Infracost dashboards are enabled by default for users. This is done via the Infracost's `INFRACOST_ENABLE_DASHBOARD` environment variable, which is set `true` by default.

```

> If your `stages` subdirectory is not present, you would need to share the path of your `stages` directory with the `--path` option.

Reviewer: What is the `stages` subdirectory? Why wouldn't I have one?

Author: This is where the Terraform templates for deployment are available — It might be possible that the user wants to run the cost estimate tool in a different directory than the one they are present in right now.

Reviewer: I still don't understand why I wouldn't have a stages directory. Maybe this can be clarified by saying: 

>You can run the Nebari cost estimate tool outside of your Nebari directory by specifying the location of your deployment's `stages` directory.

```
nebari cost-estimate --path=path/to/stages
```

## Notes

> The cost estimate report is statically analyzed via Terraform templates stored in the `stages` sub-directory, and the actual cloud costs are subject to change. Nebari relies upon node-pools, a useful resource that doesn't get captured in the above report. A general node-pool will always have one node running, adding quite an additional charge. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The cost estimate report is statically analyzed via Terraform templates stored in the `stages` sub-directory, and the actual cloud costs are subject to change. Nebari relies upon node-pools, a useful resource that doesn't get captured in the above report. A general node pool will always have one node running, adding an additional charge. 
```

> For example, using an `m5.2xlarge` instance type on AWS for the general node-pool (currently the default) will cost $276.84 additional per month. Please check in with your cloud provider to see the associated costs with node pools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, using an `m5.2xlarge` instance type on AWS for the general node pool (currently the default) will cost $276.84 additional per month. Please check with your cloud provider to see the associated costs with node pools.
```

> Apart from this, currently, the dashboards are enabled by default for users. It is enabled using Infracost's `INFRACOST_ENABLE_DASHBOARD` environment variable, which is set `true` by default. In the future, we will allow users to disable it using Nebari's command-line interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
